## EVANS Programming Language

### Preface

In late 1780's Oliver Evans, an American inventor, engineer and entrepreneur, designed and built an automatic flour mill. That was the first implementation of a completely automated industrial process.

### Goal
This project is an attempt to design a programming language (which will be named *Evans* upon arrival), that would allow software developers to radically reduce time they spend on coding by employing capabilities of *Automatic Planning* for code generation.

Automatic planning is a branch of *Artificial Intelligence* that studies search algorithms in application to automated problem solving. *Planning Domain Definition Language (PDDL)* is the language that was designed for *International Planning Competition* in 1990's, and became de-facto standard for the planning community.

Our goal is to extend PDDL with execution functionality, allowing plans, generated by PDDL planners to be run by an interpreter.

PDDL itself has some disadvantages that we would like to address:
* archaic hard to read syntax;
* global scope of variables (predicates);
* boolean (true/false) nature of variables (predicates).

### Evans YAML
At the current stage of the project we are working on the basic principles of the language, using YAML to model the language functionality. The language syntax is yet to be designed. Evans YAML [tutorial](doc/evans.md) can be found in the [*doc*](doc/) folder.

### Workflow
Evans interpreter generates PDDL v2.1 from Evans YAML code, runs the PDDL planner, and then converts the obtained plan into Python 3 code.

### Use Cases
#### Simple calculator
*To be continued...*
